Enrich instructions for string functions INSTR() and LCASE() (#16144)
pingcap/docs: functions-and-operators/string-functions.md

### [`INSTR()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_instr)

The `INSTR(str, substr)` function is used to get the index of the first occurrence of the second given argument `substr` 
in the first given argument `str`.
Each argument can be either a string or a number.
This function is the same as the two-argument version of [`LOCATE(substr, str)`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/string-functions#locate), but with the order of the arguments reversed.

> **Note:**
>

> > `INSTR(str, substr)` is case sensitive since TiDB uses binary collations, which differs from MySQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> `INSTR(str, substr)` is case sensitive since [TiDB uses binary collations by default](/character-set-and-collation.md), which differs from MySQL.
```

Reviewer: ```
mysql> SELECT TIDB_VERSION()\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
TIDB_VERSION(): Release Version: v7.5.0
Edition: Community
Git Commit Hash: 069631e2ecfedc000ffb92c67207bea81380f020
Git Branch: heads/refs/tags/v7.5.0
UTC Build Time: 2023-11-24 08:50:14
GoVersion: go1.21.3
Race Enabled: false
Check Table Before Drop: false
Store: tikv
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'collation\_%';
+----------------------+--------------------+
| Variable_name        | Value              |
+----------------------+--------------------+
| collation_connection | utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci |
| collation_database   | utf8mb4_bin        |
| collation_server     | utf8mb4_bin        |
+----------------------+--------------------+
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT INSTR("apple pear apricot", "EAR");
+------------------------------------+
| INSTR("apple pear apricot", "EAR") |
+------------------------------------+
|                                  8 |
+------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT INSTR("apple pear apricot" COLLATE utf8mb4_bin, "EAR");
+--------------------------------------------------------+
| INSTR("apple pear apricot" COLLATE utf8mb4_bin, "EAR") |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                      0 |
+--------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

- If `substr` is not in `str`, the function returns 0; otherwise, it returns the index of the first occurrence
of `substr` in `str`.
- If either argument is NULL, the function returns NULL.

Examples:

```sql
SELECT INSTR("pingcap.com", "tidb");

+------------------------------+
| INSTR("pingcap.com", "tidb") |
+------------------------------+
|                            0 |
+------------------------------+
```

```sql
SELECT INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "tidb");

+-----------------------------------+
| INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "tidb") |
+-----------------------------------+
|                                13 |
+-----------------------------------+
```

```sql
SELECT INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "TiDB");

+-----------------------------------+
| INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "TiDB") |
+-----------------------------------+
|                                 0 |
+-----------------------------------+
```

```sql
SELECT INSTR(0123, "12");

+-------------------+
| INSTR(0123, "12") |
+-------------------+
|                 1 |
+-------------------+
```

### [`LCASE()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_lcase)

> The `LCASE(str)` function is a synonym for [`LOWER(str)`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/string-functions#lower), 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `LCASE(str)` function is a synonym for [`LOWER(str)`](/functions-and-operators/string-functions.md#lower), 
```

### [`INSTR()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_instr)

The `INSTR(str, substr)` function is used to get the index of the first occurrence of the second given argument `substr` in the first given argument `str`. Each argument can be either a string or a number. This function is the same as the two-argument version of [`LOCATE(substr, str)`](/functions-and-operators/string-functions.md#locate), but with the order of the arguments reversed.

> **Note:**
>
> `INSTR(str, substr)` is case-sensitive by default, since [TiDB defaults to using binary collations](/character-set-and-collation.md), which differs from MySQL.

- If either argument is a number, the function treats the number as a string.

> - If `substr` is not in `str`, the function returns 0; otherwise, it returns the index of the first occurrence of `substr` in `str`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If `substr` is not in `str`, the function returns `0`. Otherwise, it returns the position of the first occurrence of `substr` in `str`.
```

> - If either argument is NULL, the function returns NULL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If either argument is `NULL`, the function returns `NULL`.
```

+------------------------------+
```

```sql
SELECT INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "tidb");

+-----------------------------------+
| INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "tidb") |
+-----------------------------------+
|                                13 |
+-----------------------------------+
```

```sql
SELECT INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "TiDB");

+-----------------------------------+
| INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "TiDB") |
+-----------------------------------+
|                                 0 |
+-----------------------------------+
```

```sql
SELECT INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb" COLLATE utf8mb4_general_ci, "TiDB");

+--------------------------------------------------------------+
| INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb" COLLATE utf8mb4_general_ci, "TiDB") |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                           13 |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
```

```sql
SELECT INSTR(0123, "12");

+-------------------+
| INSTR(0123, "12") |
+-------------------+
|                 1 |
+-------------------+
```

### [`LCASE()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_lcase)

> The `LCASE(str)` function is a synonym for [`LOWER(str)`](/functions-and-operators/string-functions.md#lower), which returns the given argument `str` with all characters changed to lowercase. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `LCASE(str)` function is a synonym for [`LOWER(str)`](#lower), which returns the given argument `str` with all characters changed to lowercase. 
```

### [`INSTR()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_instr)

> The `INSTR(str, substr)` function is used to get the index of the first occurrence of the second given argument `substr` 

Reviewer: Please put lines 167 to 169 all on one line.  Or put a empty line in between them if that makes more sense. Or change them to be a list.

### [`LOWER()`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/string-functions.html#function_lower)

> The `LOWER(str)` function is used to convert the given argument `str` with all characters changed to lowercase. The argument can be either a string or a number.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `LOWER(str)` function is used to convert all characters in the given argument `str` to lowercase. The argument can be either a string or a number.
```

- If the argument is a string, the function returns the string in lowercase.
- If the argument is a number, the function returns the number without leading zeros.

> - If the argument is NULL, the function returns NULL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If the argument is `NULL`, the function returns `NULL`.
```

> **Note:**
>
> `INSTR(str, substr)` is case-sensitive by default, since [TiDB defaults to using binary collations](/character-set-and-collation.md), which differs from MySQL.

- If either argument is a number, the function treats the number as a string.
- If `substr` is not in `str`, the function returns `0`. Otherwise, it returns the position of the first occurrence of `substr` in `str`.
- If either argument is `NULL`, the function returns `NULL`.

Examples:

```sql
SELECT INSTR("pingcap.com", "tidb");

+------------------------------+
| INSTR("pingcap.com", "tidb") |
+------------------------------+
|                            0 |
+------------------------------+
```

```sql
SELECT INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "tidb");

+-----------------------------------+
| INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "tidb") |
+-----------------------------------+
|                                13 |
+-----------------------------------+
```

```sql

> SELECT INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "TiDB");

Reviewer 3: Which tidb version do you use? I tried it on my tidb cluster with tidb commit cac449b3370c5, and get different result.

```sql
mysql> SELECT INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "TiDB");
+-----------------------------------+
| INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "TiDB") |
+-----------------------------------+
|                                13 |
+-----------------------------------+
```

Author: ```bash
mysql> SELECT TIDB_VERSION()\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
TIDB_VERSION(): Release Version: v7.1.1-serverless
Edition: Community
Git Commit Hash: 14db49a2968b68ac4cf3e4a59db87ba30a97996d
Git Branch: release-7.1-serverless
UTC Build Time: 2024-01-29 10:05:53
GoVersion: go1.21.6
Race Enabled: false
TiKV Min Version: 6.1.0
Check Table Before Drop: false
Store: tikv
1 row in set (0.24 sec)

mysql> SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'collation\_%';
+----------------------+-------------+
| Variable_name        | Value       |
+----------------------+-------------+
| collation_connection | utf8mb4_bin |
| collation_database   | utf8mb4_bin |
| collation_server     | utf8mb4_bin |
+----------------------+-------------+
3 rows in set (0.25 sec)

mysql> SELECT INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "TiDB");
+-----------------------------------+
| INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "TiDB") |
+-----------------------------------+
|                                 0 |
+-----------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.24 sec)
```

Reviewer 2: Currently, the "master" branch of TiDB docs is for TiDB v7.6.0. @jyf111, would you try installing TiDB v7.6 according to [this quick start guide](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/quick-start-with-tidb)? Thanks.

Author: ```bash
mysql> SELECT TIDB_VERSION()\G
*************************** 1. row ***************************
TIDB_VERSION(): Release Version: v7.6.0
Edition: Community
Git Commit Hash: 52794d985ba6325d75a714d4eaa0838d59425eb6
Git Branch: heads/refs/tags/v7.6.0
UTC Build Time: 2024-01-22 14:20:42
GoVersion: go1.21.5
Race Enabled: false
Check Table Before Drop: false
Store: tikv
1 row in set (0.01 sec)

mysql> SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'collation\_%';
+----------------------+--------------------+
| Variable_name        | Value              |
+----------------------+--------------------+
| collation_connection | utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci |
| collation_database   | utf8mb4_bin        |
| collation_server     | utf8mb4_bin        |
+----------------------+--------------------+
3 rows in set (0.01 sec)

mysql> SELECT INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "TiDB");
+-----------------------------------+
| INSTR("pingcap.com/tidb", "TiDB") |
+-----------------------------------+
|                                13 |
+-----------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

Um.. But I don't know why `collation_connection` becomes `utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci`.

The latest [doc](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/system-variables#collation_connection) still shows that the default value of `collation_connection` is `utf8mb4_bin`.

Reviewer 2: Hi @jyf111, thanks for checking the version. 

According to @YangKeao (a TiDB developer), `utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci` was introduced in v7.4 to be compatible with MySQL 8.0 (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/45650). 

Starting from v7.4.0,  the default collation of `utf8mb4` on TiDB depends on the version of MySQL client, and @YangKeao will create a PR to clarify this issue in the [doc](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.6/system-variables#collation_connection).

Reviewer 2: @jyf111 FYI, here is the docPR created by @YangKeao: https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/16423/files

Author: Great. I have updated the sentences related to case sensitivity and collations. PTAL
